<pre>
    Title: OBPP Top 3 Privacy Threats for 2016
    Author: Open Bitcoin Privacy Project
    Status: Draft
    License: Public Domain
    Created: 2017-01-12
    Last Updated: 2016-01-12
</pre>

== Introduction ==

For more information about the OBPP Top 3 Threats project, please refer to our
  [https://github.com/OpenBitcoinPrivacyProject/top-threats/master/README.md general project documentation].

== OBPP Top 3 for 2016 ==

* OBPP-2016-T1: Merging co-owned funds
* OBPP-2016-T2: Reusing Bitcoin addresses
* OBPP-2016-T3: Linking network identity to Bitcoin address

== OBPP-2016-T1: Merging co-owned funds ==

=== Description ===

When funds residing in multiple Bitcoin addresses or scripts are spent as inputs
 in the same transaction, this indicates to attackers that the funds are all
 owned by the same person or organization. Multi-party mixing protocols such as
 CoinJoin are a common mitigation against this blockchain-based information
 leak.

=== Details ===

See: [https://github.com/OpenBitcoinPrivacyProject/top-threats/master/2016/OBPP-2016-T1.mediawiki OBPP-2016-T1]

== OBPP-2016-T2: Reusing Bitcoin addresses ==

=== Description ===

Sending funds to the same Bitcoin address in multiple transactions provides
 strong indication to privacy attackers that the funds are owned by the same
 entity. For this reason, a new Bitcoin address should be used to receive funds
 for each transaction.

=== Details ===

See: [https://github.com/OpenBitcoinPrivacyProject/top-threats/2016/master/OBPP-2016-T2.mediawiki OBPP-2016-T2]

== OBPP-2016-T3: Linking network identity to Bitcoin address ==

=== Description ===

Bitcoin software networks with remote machines to download updates to the
 Bitcoin blockchain and broadcast new transactions. Without protection
 mechanisms, these network connections can betray information about the user’s
 identity to peers and third party network observers. This creates a link for
 strangers between the user’s real world identity and his transactions.

=== Details ===

See: [https://github.com/OpenBitcoinPrivacyProject/top-threats/2016/master/OBPP-2016-T3.mediawiki OBPP-2016-T3]

== Attacker Categories ==

=== Blockchain Observer ===

A Blockchain Observer is an attacker who downloads information from the Bitcoin
 blockchain and performs statistical analysis on it to notice patterns that
 suggest common ownership of funds. It is easy for anyone to become such an
 attacker since operating a full node is inexpensive and completely open to the
 public by design.

=== Network Observer ===

A network observer is any attacker who uses passive or active network-based
 attacks to breach the privacy of his victim. For wallets connecting to the
 Bitcoin P2P network, such attackers often include nodes in the Bitcoin network
 and infrastructure providers such as ISPs. For client-server based wallets such
 as web wallets, the wallet provider is a potential network attacker, in
 addition to ISPs.

== Copyright ==

This work is placed in the public domain.
